Hi there!
Meow!
Mimi!
Why hello there.
I got it!
[Machine hums]
What a strange melody.
I haven't been able to hear
it again.
Good evening!
Thanks for watching over me.
I'll bring you something to eat
later. Okay?
Mom?
You're home early today.
[Asuna] Oh.
Forgot to turn the light off.
I'm home, Daddy.
How did you get in here?!
Stop it Mimi!
Let's give thanks.
That sure was a strange song.
I wonder if I'll be able to hear
it again.
Meow.
[Asuna] Good night, Mimi.
A light?
Maybe it was my imagination.
[Teacher] Next, Miss Yuu Yazaki.
Keep up the good work.
[Yuu] I will.
Next, Miss Asuna Watase.
Coming.
Asuna has the best score in the
class, once more.
[Boy] Asuna's first again?
[Teacher] You've really been...
[Girl 1] That's our class rep
for you.
[Teacher] ...working hard
haven't you?
Yeah, she's a studying machine!
[Teacher] Now then, before you
go, there's a warning I need to
give you.
Lately there have been reports
from a number of students,
about some kind of animal near
Obuchi, probably a bear.
My brother told me, he said he
saw it.
[Teacher] Just in case, please
go straight home.
And walk home with a friend that
lives near you.
[School bell rings]
[Students] Yes, ma'am.
[Boy] Wait up for me!
Hey, Asuna!
Wanna walk home together?
I-I'd really like to, but I have
to hurry back.
Thanks for asking though.
[Yuu] Sure. Maybe another time?
5 Kilos of rice please.
5 kilos, coming right up.
[Woman] Are you alright
with that?
[Asuna] Just fine, thank you.
What a pretty day.
It's so quiet.
I can't hear the birds.
[Growling]
The bear...that's the...
[Creature roars]
[Shun] Stand back.
It'll be okay.
But...
It's going to die soon.
Can't be...
No!
[Train whistle]
[Train breaking]
[Shun] Sorry for putting you in
such a rough spot.
It's over now, we gotta go.
Huh? Wait a sec!
Trust me.
[Asuna] Ah!
[Asuna screams]
[Eerie singing in the air]
[Shun] I'm sure I came here to
meet you.
You're awake, I see.
The danger has passed, it's safe
for you to go back now.
Thank you... You saved
me, right?
Thank you!
But it's probably best if you
don't come here anymore.
Mimi?
I know what I saw! There were
definitely people standing
there on the tracks!
Two kids, about this tall...
Two kids?
[Officer] Commander!
Over here.
[Teacher] Miss Watase?
Is Asuna not here today?
I do hope she's feeling all
right, poor little thing.
Now, I think you all might have
heard already,
but that bear was spotted once
again yesterday on the
Obuchi Bridge.
[Girl 1] Oh so it was true!
[Boy 1] I heard the police
are investigatin'.
[Girl 2] But I heard it's
already dead.
[Teacher] If you'll pardon
the interruption...
It might still be near the
routes you take to school, so
take extra-special care.
Yes, ma'am!
Yuu, will you tell Asuna
for me?
Sure.
Also, the substitute teacher
that'll be filling in for me,
while I'm on maternity leave
will be coming tomorrow.
Is she really pretty?
I'm afraid it's a man.
A guy?
[Asuna] I just have to go.
It was the bridge right ahead,
I heard...
How frightful...
[Red lady] I heard they already
started the trains up again.
Well, there's only one every
two hours!
Good morning, Asuna!
[Asuna] Hello.
It's a lovely sunny day, yes?
[Asuna] Yes... Well...
[Rice lady] Oh, Mr. Sato...
[Mr. Sato] Howdy.
[Rice lady] Hey, did you hear?
That bear showed up on the
Obuchi Bridge!
[Officer] It's here!
Wait a second...
Saplings...
From the power of vita-aqua?
It's crystallizing...
Someone's come up to
the surface.
Spread out!
[Shun] I figured she would come.
Even though I warned her.
[Mimi] Meow.
Yeah I know...
To be honest, I was kind of
hoping she would come back.
I thought I told you, you
shouldn't come.
[Asuna] Yeah, so?
[Asuna] Mimi!
Why, you traitor...
You were suppose to only get
along with me!
You no-good two-timer...
[Asuna] And you...
This was my place to begin with.
I don't want anyone telling me
not to come here.
I'm the same way.
[Shun] I came here because I
wanted to.
I'm Shun, and you are?
Asuna. That's me.
Your arm! Your hurt!
You're bleeding... Is this
from yesterday?
I'm fine. It's nothing.
But it's my fault that you...
[Asuna] You should get it looked
at in the hospital later.
My mom works there. She'll take
care of you.
It looks like you have
everything you need here.
[Asuna] Yeah. But it's the first
time this has ever come
in handy.
I kinda wanted my own place,
so I brought things up piece
by piece.
You know?
And this is the best place
for the tuning into the radio.
[Shun] Radio?
Okay, all finished!
Thank you so much.
Wanna hear it?
[Asuna] I use this crystal
instead of a diode.
Depending on the weather and
time of day, you can get
different signals.
[Shun] Hey, that stone...
Got it!
Here.
It's some kind of music
program, see?
Want some?
Thank you, I was hungry.
You know, awhile back, I tuned
into this melody...
It sounded like no music
I'd ever heard before.
It's weird but it sounded like
what someone's heart would
sound like.
When I heard it, I was both
sad and happy at the same time,
and I was able to feel like I
was no longer alone...
[Asuna] It will stay with
me, always...
I wish that I...I could hear it
once again.
[Asuna] Shun?
Hey Asuna, you aren't going to
ask me anything?
[Shun] I'm sure you must have
a lot of questions.
[Asuna] Like what that
bear-thing was?
[Shun] Right.
Yeah... But I'm okay for now.
I mean, there's just so much
to ask...
It'll take too long now, so I
think I'll just come back
here tomorrow.
[Shun] I came from a different
land named Agartha.
Agartha...
A foreign country?
Mhm.
[Shun] There was something I
wanted to see,
and someone I had to meet.
But now I've accomplished
everything I wanted. I have
no regrets.
[Asuna] So your wish came true?
Mhm... Alright, I think you
should go home before it
gets dark.
Right... I'll go home after the
cicadas stop chirping.
[Shun] Asuna...
I'll give you a blessing.
[Shun] Close your eyes.
Okay...
W-was that just a...
k-k-k-kiss?
[Shun] Asuna.
I...all I wish is for you
to live.
That's all I've ever wanted
for you...
Yeah... uh...
Sorry, see you tomorrow!
Tomorrow, then.
[Heart beat]
Whoa, what a shock...
Shun...
[Shun] So she's the one who
heard my final song...
She called you Mimi, right?
I want you to...to lead Asuna to
a better place in my stead.
Now at this point, the fear is
almost unbearable...
But at the same time, there's an
equally powerful happiness.
It's like my hand can almost
reach them...
I'm home, Asuna.
Welcome home! You must be tired
from the night shift.
Yeah... Two lunches?
[Asuna] Yeah, one's for
a friend!
[Asuna] Mom, you'll eat
breakfast, right?
Mhm.
Maybe we could eat it together?
What are you talking about?
You've eaten already, right?
I can still eat a bit more.
Actually, I'm still kind
of hungry.
No. You have to make sure
you're not late to school.
[Mrs. Watase] Asuna, why
don't we go out to dinner
somewhere tonight?
I have the day off, after all.
[Asuna] Really?
Then I'll be home before six!
Six?
[Mrs. Watase] Today's Saturday,
right? Where are you going?
[Asuna] To a friend's place! See
you later!
[Mrs. Watase] Hey, what happened
to your scarf?
I lost it. I'll buy another at
the school store!
Have a nice day!
A friend, huh?
[Phone rings]
[Mrs. Watase] Are you sure
about that?
Ah, I see. Yes, yes...
Anyway, I'll ask her tomorrow.
[School bell rings]
[Asuna] And I told him I'd
come today...
Maybe it's because of the rain?
[Door opens]
[Asuna] I'm home.
[Asuna] Sorry, Mom... can you
get me a towel?
My, look at you... you're
sopping wet!
You didn't bring an umbrella?
No...
H-hey, I can dry myself!
[Asuna] Mom?
Mom? What is it?
Asuna, the police found a
young boy's body in
the riverbed.
He had your scarf tied around
his arm.
When they found him, he
was dead.
That's got to be...
someone else...
[Asuna] After all, it's not like
he fell or anything.
[Mrs. Watase] Asuna...
I'm fine. I'm sure it's a
mistake, don't worry.
Since it's raining, let's do
dinner some other time. Okay?
I-I need to do my homework.
Asuna...
I'm fine, okay?
Shun!
[Young Asuna] Dad's not coming
back anymore?
Is he, Mom?
[Asuna] To wish for something
like that...
I'm sure he wouldn't want
that, yes...
Dad said that death was a part
of life, after all.
Even so...
I...
[Morisaki] And then sadly,
tragicly, his wife died.
Overcome with grief, Izanagi
decided to travel to the land of
Yomi far underneath the Earth,
in order to bring his wife,
Izanami, back from the dead.
After traveling deep beneath
the Earth,
he was at last reunited with
his wife,
apon their reunion she
said this:
"I am a resident of the Land of
the Dead."
"However, if the God of Yomi
allows it, I can return home
with you."
"But for that to happen, there
is one condition."
"While I am talking with the
god, you must not look at
my body."
But Izanagi broke that promise.
He opened the gate to Yomi.
And therefore Izanagi's wife
can no longer return with him.
And that the first verse of the
Kojiki Mythology.
[Morisaki] This myths of those
heading below the Earth to
resurrect loved ones is not
unique to our culture.
It can be called the land
of Yomi.
The Romans called it the
underworld, the Greeks; Hades,
Budhism; Shambhala, Agartha...
Different in name perhaps,
but all located in the same
space beneath our world.
People once believed that the
secret to death itself lies
beneath our very feet.
[Announcment] Everyone, it is
time to go home from school.
[Teacher] Is there something
about Asuna?
[Morisaki] No, she just seems
very serious,
so I was wondering what kind of
student she was.
Oh yes... She's very well
behaved, and a very good girl.
But her father passed away when
she was young,
and her mother seems to be very
busy with her nursing work.
I do wonder if she's trying too
hard to be good, you know...
That's too bad.
And they found that corpse of
the unidentified boy before,
just terrible.
[Yuu] Asuna, aren't you
going home?
[Asuna] Yuu... No, I have
something I need to ask
Mr. Morisaki.
[Yuu] I don't really like him
so much...
Today's lesson was
kinda scary...
[Asuna] Scary?
[Yuu] You know, I
heard something...
a rumor that his wife died...
Pardon me.
So?
Seems like he went
home already.
Later!
See you tomorrow.
[Music box plays]
[Doorbell rings]
Can I help you?
Um, I'm sorry, but I had
something I wanted to ask you
about what you said in class.
Of course, just give me
a moment.
[Morisaki] Do you drink coffee?
Uh, yes! If you could put some
milk in it...
Thank you very much.
Um, I'm sorry for barging in
like this.
I asked Ms. Ikeda where
you lived.
Well now as you can see, you're
not bothering anyone but me.
I'm sorry my place is not quite
ready for guests.
I've just arrived here.
So, what can I do?
U-um, about what you said
in class today...
[Morisaki] You were listening
very intently, yes...
You have someone you want to
bring back from the dead?
It was you who met the stranger
that came from Agartha
wasn't it?
[Morisaki] Take a look at this.
[Morisaki] We call them
"Quetzal Coatl".
The gatekeepers that guard the
entrances to Agartha.
Compare that, to
this illustration.
[Asuna] It looks similar to the
one from before.
It's a 3,000-year-old statue of
a god from Sumeria.
Once there were gods just like
this all around the world,
they were guiding the path
of humanity.
When it was still in
its infancy.
Those are what we call
Quetzal Coatl.
Eventually humanity grew up,
and the existence of gods was
no longer necessary.
They hid themselves under the
Earth as gatekeepers.
[Morisaki] Along with a number
of different clans.
[Asuna] Clans?
[Morisaki] A small number of
humans went with the Quetzal
Coatl underneath the ground.
To the Underworld, Agartha.
There the gods that disappeared
remained with their secrets,
and it is said to be a place
where any kind of wish can
be fulfilled.
Even resurrecting the dead!
Is Agartha a real place?
Who knows? It could just be an
old legend.
I've only been doing researching
all the different theories on
the matter.
Just a little hobby of mine.
But where...
You should head home. It's
getting dark.
[Asuna] Thank you.
I'm not sure I was much help...
No, you were...
Mr. Morisaki, I'm sure that
Agartha really exists.
It'll be night soon. Go straight
home, and don't stray from
the path.
Mimi?!
Hey, wait... Mimi!
I said wait!
Mimi, where are you?
Shun, Shun!
I knew it!
You're okay!
Hand off! Who are you?
Did he make contact with a
Topsider or something?
[Asuna] Shun?
[Shin] He's gone.
Just forget everything
that's happened.
Arch Angel's here? I have to go!
A boy from Agartha? Hand over
the Clavis.
Who are these men?
[Asuna] What do they want?
[Shin] Damn it!
[Asuna screams]
Don't hit them.
We'll let them lead us to it.
That jewel...
[Shin] This Clavis? I came to
the surface to get it back.
This way, they can't get in.
Wait until morning and then
go home.
The surface?
So Agartha really
is underground?
[Shin] You've even heard
about that?
Shun... Could you have lost
your memories?
Now look...
In there.
Damn it! They're coming in!
Hey, how far are we...
[Shin] Hurry up and follow me!
They're coming after us!
Shun, is this cave...
[Shin] I told you already!
I'm not Shun!
I am under no obligation to save
you, by the way.
Then what's the deal? If you're
not Shun, then who are you?
Quiet. You stay here.
What?
The gatekeeper.
The gatekeepers once guided
humans long ago.
But because of the polluted
atmosphere above, most of them
have lost their senses...
It'd be great if
they remembered...
[Asuna] Shun!
[Shin] Stay back!
Are you okay?
[Shin] It's not over yet.
Take the Clavis.
I don't want to kill
the gatekeeper.
I have to put him
to sleep!
Shun!
[Gunshots]
This must be the entrance!
[Asuna] Are you okay?
Let's run...
[Morisaki] That's a Pakicetus...
They were supposed to
be extinct.
[Soldier] What is it?
[Morisaki] An ancient whale from
50 million years ago.
Kill it.
[Soldier] We can't do that.
We have to recover all
the evidence...
[Morisaki] As long as we get
that Clavis,
there won't be any complaints.
Do it.
Stop!
[Morisaki] Come here with
that Clavis!
If you don't, I'll kill
the boy.
[Shin] Don't do it.
Then again, I could just kill
both of you righ there.
Shun...
I'll save you when I see
a chance.
Right.
[Morisaki] Don't stop,
keep walking.
Watch over the boy here.
[Soldier] Is that the gate?
[Morisaki] Most likely.
Neither explosives nor drills
will be effective,
like at the South Pole.
Touch the Clavis to that light.
[Morisaki] What's the matter?
Do it!
[Morisaki] The Interstitial
Sea...
Finally, it's within
my grasp...
Good work, men.
[Soldier] Commander, what
are you...
[Morisaki] I'll be going alone
from here.
Give the old men back at Europa
my best wishes.
Don't move!
Shun!
What's the meaning of this?
Mr. Morisaki?
[Morisaki] Now that I've come
this far,
I have no reason to be
your enemy.
All I want to do is go
to Agartha.
[Shin] Agartha is falling
into ruin.
Nothing Arch Angel hopes to
find is there.
I do not seek the secret to
eternal life or the knowledge
of the ancients.
All I want is to return my wife
to the living.
[Shin] Do as you wish,
I don't care.
My only mission was to retrieve
the Clavis.
[Shin] What's your name?
Asuna.
I'm Shin. Shun's
younger brother.
[Asuna] Shin? Then, Shun is...
[Shin] My brother is dead.
He knew that he couldn't survive
on the surface for long,
yet he broke the rules and
went anyway.
[Shin] I'm leaving now.
You can open the exit even
without a Clavis.
I'm sorry about you getting
involved, Asuna...
Shin...
[Morisaki] I didn't mean to put
you in the middle.
[Asuna] Mr. Morisaki, why?
Have you heard of the name
Arch Angel?
[Asuna] No...
[Morisaki] It's the only
organization that recognizes
the existence of Agartha.
It wants the knowledge of the
Underworld in order to lead
humanity on the proper path.
I am a member, and have been
searching for the entrance to
Agartha for more than ten years.
But, the people you
were with...
Arch Angel is nothing more than
a group of empty-headed,
Gnostics and self
rightgeous scholars.
Nothing they believe is of any
interest to me.
My only goal in finding this
place is to resurrect my wife.
I'm going to head to Agartha,
and search for a way.
Sorry you were dragged
into this.
It's vita-aqua, I knew it.
[Asuna] Mr. Morisaki!
Mr. Morisaki...
I'm coming too!
And why's that? Could it be,
you just want to bring that dead
boy back to life?
[Asuna] Well...
I don't really know...
But...!
It may be a dangerous journey,
and I don't know when or if
we'll be able to get back.
I understand.
Take my hand.
This is an ancient fluid known
as vita-aqua.
If it fills your lungs, you
should be able to breathe.
Agartha should just be below.
Um, Mr. Morisaki, wait...
It's okay. You can breathe in
the water.
This is to bring back
someone precious...
Make your decision, Asuna!
[Mr. Watase] We'll be able to
meet her soon...
[Mrs. Watase] Yes... I pray that
this child's life will be
a blessing...
[Mr. Watase] Don't worry. Just
by being born, life is already
full of great happiness.
That's right...
[Asuna] I need to be born soon.
Stars...
Mimi...
[Morisaki] Are you awake?
That little guy popped out of
your backpack.
You brought it with you?
No... When did you...
You might not have the luxury
to take it with you the
whole way.
With me?
[Asuna] Mr. Morisaki, is this...
[Morisaki] It looks like we can
get through,
those stairs on the other side.
Let's go.
Something is here?
[Morisaki] Yes...
This might be another
gatekeeper.
It's looking at us.
Then I guess we'll have to take
it straight on.
Mimi!
[Asuna] Mimi, come here.
[Morisaki] Asuna!
Mimi!
[Morisaki] Asuna, let's go.
That might be more useful than
I thought.
So this is Agartha.
Mr. Morisaki, look!
Shakuna Vimana! The flying ark
on which God rides!
Just like it was written.
God...
That's...
A Clavis?
A fragment of one? But why do
you have that?
[Asuna] It's a crystal for a
radio. A memento from my dad.
A memento?
[Morisaki] Clavis is Latin
for "key".
It may end up being of help to
us later.
[Morisaki] Take good care of it.
[Asuna] Right.
[Morisaki] Let's head in the
same direction as that ark.
Whereever that ark is head is
probably where you and I need
to be.
Here.
There are traces of villages,
just as you thought!
Although no matter where we go,
they're in ruins.
[Asuna] There might still be
some vegetable fields. I'll
go check.
Come here, Mimi!
Toward Finis Terra...
The Gate of Life and Death...
Mr. Morisaki, look!
[Asuna] Looks like I've found
tonight's dinner...
See?
Some potatoes might be
poisonous, just in case...
[Asuna] I'll remove the poison
with water!
And also, your clothes...
[Asuna] Yours are pretty dirty
too, you know.
I'll wash them afterwards, so
please get changed.
[Asuna] Potatoes, yay!
These are good.
Thank goodness I found some
some salt,
that was still left in that
old kitchen.
[Morisaki] I'm surprised.
Is this journey fun for you?
I...
Whenever I listened to
the radio,
I felt like there was a far-off
world I had to get to somewhere.
"This is not where I belong.
There is a place I've never
seen before..."
Then I met a mysterious boy,
and chased him all the
way here...
And ever since I came
to Agartha,
my heart has been beating a mile
a minute for some reason...
That's why I'm sure that ahead
of here, something...
Um...
Not being able to see the
stars at night makes me
somewhat uneasy.
It makes you realize just how
solitary human existence is.
[Elder] Shin Canaan Praeses.
As for the recovery of the
Clavis, we laud your service.
But you have made a
grave error.
A man and girl have come from
the surface with Clavis
in hand,
making pace toward the Gate of
Life and Death.
[Shin] But I have the Clavis
right here...
[Elder] Theirs is a
different fragment.
You stood there and foolishly
allowed those Topsiders
entrance into Agartha...
This was a grave error.
But the task which I was given
was only...
Out with such excuses!
Do not waste your breath.
Our days of prosperity are
long past,
and we are living the long days
of twilight.
Our wish now is to fade away
into Astral, the endpoint of
life itself.
But every time a gate
is opened,
Topsiders come and press in
upon Agartha,
throwing our peaceful existence
into turmoil...
[Elder] We shan't ever forget
the suffering we once endured,
be it even for a moment.
A disheartening pity.
Facing the coming-of-
age ceremony,
your eyes are as of yet
not open.
Unable to peer into the vision
of the Quetzal Coatl...
Unsuited to sense the breath of
the Clavis!
Your brother had natural gifts.
But his soul was weak, and his
yearning for the surface grew
ever stronger.
Shin Canaan Preases, I give you
a new task.
Shin!
Seri! Aren't you in the middle
of a task?
Just a short break isn't
a problem.
Seri, about Shun...
I know.
It's a shame.
No... Even if the illness
was hastened,
I'm sure that Shun saw what he
wanted to.
Shin... You have another
task, yes?
[Shin] Yes. I have to find the
Topsiders and confiscate
their Clavis.
[Seri] But that's...
[Shin] It's not like I was told
I had to kill them.
But if I have to...
You can't do such a dangerous
task by yourself!
After our parents died, the
people of the village
raised us.
I have to repay that debt.
[Morisaki] Eat.
Thank you very much...
Maybe we should make soup?
Here you go.
[Morisaki] What is it?
[Asuna] You seem to be getting
along all of a sudden.
[Morisaki] Well, if it comes
down to it, we can use the cat
for food.
I'm joking.
[Asuna] Mr. Morisaki... It's
like you're my... dad.
Don't be silly.
You have fever, it's rare, you
never get sick.
[Lisa] I thought it was my job
to fall ill all the time.
[Young Morisaki] I'm sorry.
If you feel that way,
can you promise me something?
What?
Even when I'm long gone, promise
me you'll keep on living a
good life?
Lisa, my next mission will be
over soon.
After I get back, let's go back
to my country together.
If we do that, then your
illness will definitely...
[Lisa] That's not what I asked.
Listen... Everyone on this earth
pass on from this life sometime.
[Lisa] The only difference is
whether it comes sooner,
or later.
And I'm just going a bit
before you...
There's no changing that.
[Lisa coughing]
Lisa...
Don't say that.
You aren't going to leave me,
and I am never going to leave
your side.
I would never prepare for
your absence...
For certain...
Lisa, are you there? Talk to me.
[Asuna] Um...you seemed like you
were uncomfortable, so I...
[Morisaki] Asuna... Did I
say something?
[Asuna] No...
[Morisaki] A rainbow.
They're heading toward the land
where the Izoku dwell.
Gotta hurry!
Got it!
I see... So the scenery that I
would see while listening to the
radio was a part of Agartha...
Come. Let's go, Asuna. I know
what it means to say goodbye.
It's okay, don't cry. You're
all right.
[Littl girl crying]
Any luck?
What should we do?
What? What's wrong?
They're gone.
I see the Clavis!
Come on!
They can't go out from
the shadows!
Come here!
It's okay, come here!
Climb!
[Asuna] Please, you can do it!
Grab on!
Asuna!
Quick! Come on!
Shin is that you?
Looks like you got it right
this time.
[Shin] This is the nest
of Izoku.
Come on, they'll devour you
and your so-called
defiled blood.
We got to get out of here!
Shin! How did you know we
were here?
Um, after we last met, I chased
after you into Agartha!
And that's caused me a whole lot
of trouble, thank you!
[Asuna] What? I just wanted to
see you again...
[Shin] Don't talk, just run!
[Shin] They're coming after you!
[Asuna] I am running!
[Asuna] Shin! Shin,
they're coming!
Asuna, jump!
Shin!
Are you okay?
Come on!
Asuna, you still have a fragment
of the Clavis, don't you?
Might want to hand it over
to me.
Shin!
I have to save him.
Hold it, little guy!
Asuna!
Hey, Asuna!
Asuna...
A horse?
[Morisaki] He told you to give
him the Clavis?
It doesn't seem like those
things that snatched you off
were planning to give us a
nice welcome.
And what'll we do with her?
What is it?
Something's over there?
Downstream?
Shin!
You're covered in sweat!
Asuna?
Shin!
You're safe, too?
[Asuna] Thank goodness.
You're all right...
[Shin] Right... We were
swept away...
Wait, I'll get you water.
You! What are you doing here!?
You're from Arch Angel!
I know that you have a Clavis
on you. Leave it here and get
out of Agartha!
Tell me why.
How should I know?
This is the job I've been
tasked with!
Hand over the Clavis!
Come on, let's go where that
little girl was pointing.
There might be a village there.
I'm bringing him with us.
Do whatever you want.
There are people!
The first living village.
Let's go, but watch yourself.
Oh dear...
It couldn't be...
[Villager 1] They're Topsiders.
[Villager 2] I can't
believe this.
[Villager 3] A bad omen...
Everyone, stand back!
That's the little mute girl. The
defiled child kidnapped the day
before yesterday.
Halt there!
Dinah's child, yes?
Thank you for bringing our
village's child back.
But you are Topsiders from
the surface.
And I'm afraid our village of
Amaurot cannot accept Topsiders.
You will have to turn back.
U-um, could you at least take a
look at this person? He's
been injured.
[Guard] Those clothes. He's
from Canaan?
[Asuna] I think he has a fever.
He needs your help.
Why is someone of Agartha
with those from the surface?
I cannot.
Begone!
[Grandfather] Wait!
Manna, I'm so happy you're back!
Please, forgive my
village's rudeness.
Not even a word of thanks for
saving my granddaughter?
Old Master!
Must I suffer the dishonor of
not even doing that much?
This way. Bringing you through
the village would cause you to
stand out too much.
His fever will break soon.
Although it will be a little
while before he is able to
move again.
He'll live, so there is no need
for worry.
Thank goodness.
This is all thanks to you...
That was a wound from the
Izoku, yes?
Izoku?
[Grandfather] They're a
cursed tribe,
that hates both light
and water...
But they are part of
the structure,
that maintains this world in its
current state.
That is why they hate it so
much when the two sides are
mixed together.
[Morisaki] Mixed together?
So, then that child...
Manna's father is a Topsider.
Things such as that do not
happen often.
Get out of our village!
Get out!
[Grandfather] I apologize,
Miss...
But the coming of Topsiders
is not looked upon as a good
omen among my villager.
Asuna come on.
For hundred of years, kings and
emperors from the surface,
came to steal the wealth and
wisdom of Agartha.
The kings needed Agartha's
knowledge and treasure to rule
over the surface, you see.
And what they brought in return
were countless wars...
We were more glorious than
anywhere on the surface.
But our cities were all
but destroyed, and our birth
rate dwindled.
Now there are but a handful of
villages that remain.
And so we shut the gates with
the Claves,
locking them to prevent anyone
from the surface from entering.
I'll show you to my archive.
Will you help me prepare dinner
there, Miss? If you'd be
so kind?
Yes.
This way.
Mimi...
Manna...
What next, Elder?
[Grandfather] Would you cut up
that bigroot for me please?
Sure.
You mean this?
Yes...
A daikon...
No, Mimi, stop!
I've never seen a Yadoriko get
along so well with a
Topsider before.
Yadoriko? What do you mean,
a cat?
Animals in which reside
God's children.
Raised with humans, after they
serve their purpose,
they become one with the
Quetzal Coatl and live
for eternity.
God...
Isn't it nice to be mistaken,
for such a wonderful creature
like that, Mimi?
Now, would you like to give
Manna a bath before dinner
is ready?
A bath?!
Baths are amazing...
Hey Manna, hold it!
Mr. Morisaki...
How do you like this outfit?
I borrowed it from the Elder.
It doesn't quite suit you.
Do why are you crying?
Because it's so delicious!
[Morisaki] Elder, if I may, I
was wondering if you could
answer my question from earlier.
[Grandfather] It is forbidden
to bring back the dead here
in Agartha.
If you're saying that it's
forbidden, that means there
is a way.
Well, life and death are just
part of the flow of something
much bigger.
Those humans who wish to
interrupt that flow shall
not be permitted to do so.
Not permitted?
Why? Exactly whose permission
must I ask?
Elder, even we on the surface
know such platitudes.
I only want to know one thing
where and how one can reunite
with lost loved ones.
That's all.
Grieving over the dead is
proper, but to continue to
pity them is erroneous
and unproductive.
You should not have involved a
girl of such youth in your own
delusional fallacy.
Asuna came here out of her own
free will!
Um! I...
All you do is sit here, staring
up at the gods,
locked up in this cellar for
2,000 years!
Miss, would you, I apologize,
but can you look after the
little one for me?
Okay, go.
Okay.
Those clothes don't suit you
at all.
That's not a nice thing to say!
Why did you do it?
Tell me why you saved me?
Because you saved me, and I
couldn't just leave you.
I was only forced to clean up
after my big brother.
You mean Shun?
Shin don't!
Don't force yourself...
You know that you can't
stay here anymore.
Damn it... I should have let the
Izoku kill you,
then taken your Clavis when I
had the chance.
Or even better, I should have
just killed those Arch Angels on
the surface.
Leave.
Shin?
I said leave!
We'll leave early
tomorrow morning.
You need to get to bed and
get some sleep.
I'm terribly sorry. I can't
shelter Topsiders for long.
I've said what I could to him.
You can stay tonight, at least,
and you can bunk with Manna.
Mimi.
Brother...
Everyone set out on each of
their journeys is a cry
for help.
If only somebody had been able
to stop them...
This made me feel like my
daughter had returned to me.
[Asuna] Elder...
Manna, take care!
The boat should get you across
the lake in two days and
one night.
From there, you will be near
the place you seek.
[Morisaki] You have my thanks
for all that you've done.
Asuna.
Mimi, come here.
Come on, we're going...
Mimi?
I believe the little one has
fulfilled its duty already.
People cannot decide what the
Yadoriko do, you see.
But... I thought we'd always
be together!
Mimi!
[Asuna] Mimi!
[Morisaki] Asuna, you just have
to accept it.
Elder, please...
Mimi!
Mr. Morisaki, wait! I still...
Manna, take care of Mimi!
Mimi, listen to what Manna
says, okay?
Goodbye...
Teacher...
Do you remember what you said
in class the other day,
about the myth of Izanagi
and Izanami?
Yes...
[Asuna] I was curious about
the end,
so I read the rest in
the library.
What Izanagi saw at the bottom
of the Earth was a frightful,
rotten visage of his wife.
So, do you think it's right to
bring back someone from
the dead?
Our journey is ending soon.
You must decide what you're
looking for at the Gate of Life
and Death.
A light? People?
No.
Izoku!
Don't worry, they shouldn't be
able to reach us here.
[Manna crying]
The part it played in this
world is over, and it is time
for it to pass on to the next.
Cry for it all you can my
little one.
For her sake, as well...
What's that?
It will be here very soon,
my son.
Quetzal Coatl! And so ancient...
[Grandfather] And in that way,
it becomes part of an even
larger part of the cycle
of life...
I wonder if Asuna thinks of it
that way as well?
Even though something precious
to her has died...
Elder, perhaps it is because the
world of Agartha has learned
too much,
about how short and meaningless
life is...
Do you think that could be why
it's falling into ruin?
Your naivete is quite similar
to that of the Topsider man.
They have longbarrels!
[Grandfather] Are they going to
stop them, even if they have to
kill them?
The same task which you bear.
What will you do?
I don't know.
But I...!
I will repay my debt!
Everyone has left us now...
It's over that ridge.
We must hurry before the Izoku
come out.
Asuna...
Wait a minute, do you hear that?
The soldiers from Amaurot!
Run!
Hide! I'll finish this quick.
[Asuna] Mr. Morisaki!
[Morisaki] They're trying to
kill us now!
Shin?
Mind your own business!
Don't kill anyone.
You'll just increase
Agartha's hatred.
[Guard Captain] The boy from
Canaan? Why do you cover for
the Topsiders?
Those two saved a girl from
your village.
You owe them a debt
of gratitude!
[Guard Captain] If we leave the
Topsiders be,
they will become the catalyst
for ruin.
We cannot allow this root
of evil!
Now move!
My debt's paid now. Both
of you go!
Shin!
You're not bad.
Please, allow me.
It's the end of this world...
Finis Terra.
The Gate of Life and Death
is at the bottom of this cliff.
Hurry... Don't let his actions
go to waste.
Lose as much weight as you can.
We're climbing down to
the bottom.
No way...
I can't! Isn't there some
other way...
[Morisaki] There's no time
for that.
When the sun sets, the Izoku
will come out.
Let's go.
Wait, for me!
Asuna!
Asuna.
Listen to me, Asuna.
Think about how far you've come,
through a sea, deep into
another world.
I know you can get past
this cliff.
Remember why you came
to Agartha!
I can't, don't you see
this place...
I... can't...
Enough of this foolishness. You
have lost your place in Agartha.
I never had one to begin with!
[Morisaki] I understand. It's
okay, Asuna, I'll alone.
I want you to give me the
Clavis. In exchange, you
take this.
Go back upstream along the
river, and aim for the
Elder's place.
I know that he'll take you in.
When night falls, enter the
water to escape from the Izoku.
I believe in you, Asuna. You can
get through this
It may be a little selfish, but
one of use has to make it back
alive, don't we?
The Clavis has disappeared
into Finis Terra.
We can pursue it no further.
But there is no way for the
Topsiders to survive descending
that cliff.
Boy, neither Agartha nor
the surface...
No place can provide you rest
or peace any longer.
You have chosen to wander
aimlessly for all eternity.
Think on that, and repent!
[Shin] I'm sorry for forcing
you to gallop so far...
Can you stand?
Where do you think I should
go now?
A-Asuna...
Ruins?
The defiled...
Kill... Devour...
Defiled... Devour...
[Shun] Asuna...
I'll give you a blessing.
Mom, what's a blessing?
A blessing?
"I'll give you a blessing."
Did someone say that to you?
Yeah...
It's like how happy I was that
you were born, Asuna.
I think that's a blessing.
Hey, Asuna!
Want to walk home together?
Asuna!
[Shin] I'm sorry about you
getting involved, Asuna.
Why did you save me?
Just how solitary human
existence is...
I will repay my debt!
Asuna!
Tell me why?
[Shin] Why have you come
to Agartha?
I came...
Because I was...
I was so lonely.
Oh no...
[Music box plays]
Lisa...
I'll see you soon.
Soon...
The water's gone!
When did it...
Defiled...
Kill...
Wait here!
Devour the defiled...
I...
I... have to live...
Asuna!
The dawn is breaking.
It's good you're safe
now, Asuna.
[Asuna] Thank you for saving
me, Shin.
I never properly thanked you
before, did I?
[Shin] Really? My body just
moved on its own.
I wasn't really thinking about
it. Think about trying to save
you I mean.
What is it?
The color of your eyes is a
little different than Shun's.
Yeah. And my brother was taller,
and his hair was a slightly
different color, too.
What are you, a kid?
Yeah? So are you!
[Asuna] You really aren't Shun,
after all...
Are you still...
Because...
Don't cry!
Brother...
Shakuna Vimana!
It's heading to the Gate of
Life and Death.
[Asuna] That's where Mr.
Morisaki is...
So that Arch Angel guy made it?
Vimana is the ark that carries
life itself!
[Asuna] Finis Terra?
I thought I'd gotten a lot
farther away than this...
I must have gone around in
circles during the night.
[Shin] Quetzal Coatl!
Asuna, this Quetzal Coatl is...
So you know?
It's probably come here to die.
Vita-aqua! This is...
A graveyard of Quetzal Coatl!
This is... the Gate of Life
and Death?
A song?
Before they die, the Quetzal
Coatl do this...
They sing a kind of song
containing all of
their memories.
This goes out, and when it does
it changes the form of
things everywhere...
Without us noticing it, the
vibrations in the air enter our
bodies and mix within us.
By doing this, they make sure
their memories exist
for eternity,
somewhere within the world.
[Quetzal Coatl sings]
This song, I've heard this
song before.
It's always stayed within me...
[Shin] Asuna!
[Asuna] Shin, I have to go to
Mr. Morisaki.
I think he might be in trouble.
But, the cliff...
It says that IT will take
us there.
Shakuna Vimana!
This must be... Agartha's god.
State my wish?
I never forgot you, never in
past ten years, not once.
I tried to get past your death,
but it was no use.
And I...I can't find any meaning
in a world that doesn't have
you in it.
Lisa, I want you to return
to me!
Shin! Ah!
Stars!
These are... stars?
Shin, look!
Lisa, is that you?
Why...
You want a living vessel in
which to place her soul?
[Asuna] Mr. Morisaki!
Asuna...
I said...I told you to go back,
you shouldn't have come here.
Asuna!
Asuna, what's the matter?
A soul of the dead is in
Asuna's body...
You damn Arch Angel! Did you
choose this?
Asuna!
Don't give up your heart!
You won't be able to come back!
Asuna!
It's cold...
Where are you? Dear?
I can't find you.
Lisa!
So that girl alone
wasn't enough?
Dear...
Asuna...
Dear, are you there?
Asuna, snap out of it!
Arch Angel, give Asuna back!
What happened to your eye?
I'm afraid you're too late, I've
already paid the price.
Lisa...
I'm right here.
Darling.
What is it? It looks like
you've grown a bit older...
I'm sorry, Lisa...
No, Asuna!
That boy... I swear I know him.
Why is it that my heart...
Lisa, I want you to stay here.
I'll be right back.
[Shin] Asuna!
Asuna!
Don't...don't do this.
Lisa has done nothing wrong!
The living are more important!
Shin?
You're going, aren't you, Asuna?
Farewell.
Lisa!
Lisa...
[Lisa] I'm sorry, Darling.
I wasn't able to protect you...
Lisa, no...
Don't go...
Lisa...
I love you.
I love you!
Find... your... happiness...
Kill me.
Kill me, please.
I heard a voice telling me to
keep on living, and embrace
my loss.
You should have heard the same
voice I did.
[Shin] It's a curse that we
humans must bear.
[Asuna] But I think it's also...
a blessing.
Asuna! Hurry and leave or
you'll be late!
[Mrs. Watase] It's the
graduation ceremony, after all!
[Asuna] I know!
[Asuna] Mom...
I'm heading out!